---
title: "Statistics and Experimental Design"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2021-SED
venue: "University of Edinburgh, Linguistics and English Language"
date: 2021-01-11
---

Undergraduate course on statistics and experimental design.

### Course summary
This course introduces key principles of experimental design and statistical methods as applied to linguistic research. It considers how to use data to test research hypotheses and explains how to conduct the appropriate statistical analysis with a widely-used statistical package, R.

### Course objectives
This course provides an introduction to experimental design and statistical methods for linguistics and psycholinguistics, assuming a minimal amount of prior knowledge and experience. We will explore a range of standard statistical methods and discuss how to apply them and under what circumstances they are appropriate, as well as the practicalities of performing these analyses using R as a statistical package.

The course will proceed from the simplest statistical tests via t-tests, correlation and regression through to an introduction to linear models, as well as considering non-parametric methods and the limitations of null hypothesis testing. We will also consider how to design experiments in such a way as to address typical theoretical questions in a range of linguistic subfields.

The course will be taught via lectures supported by lab materials, which will give students the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the practicalities of statistical analysis at their own pace and with readily-available support. Students completing the course will be able to formulate, justify and critique designs for experiments to test linguistic hypotheses, and be able to conduct suitable statistical analyses using R. 

**Course Organiser:** Dr. Chris Cummins (ccummins@exseed.ed.ac.uk)