---
title: "L2 speakers use of discourse strategies in pronoun processing"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2025-02-13-talk-1
venue: "University of Edinburgh, PPLS"
date: 2025-02-13
location: "Edinburgh, Scotland"
---

Reported the results of three experiments on the effects of individual and language differences in English and Spanish sentence processing.

## Abstract
Differences between L1 and L2 speakers have long been studied, with studies finding evidence both for similar processing and against it. With the evidence indicating that L2 processing differs in various areas, researchers have tested more and more nuanced areas of language to find where the differences lie. During sentence processing, readers can use a range of factors to help comprehension. These can either be at the sentence-level, such as subjecthood, or at the discourse-level, such as world knowledge. As not all languages share the same features, not all languages utilize these factors in the same way. When processing ambiguous pronouns some languages have been shown to use verbal aspect as a cue to disambiguate to whom the ambiguous pronouns refer. In sentences like “Moira passed/was passing the trophy to Alexis”, the following pronoun is more likely to refer to the source referent (“Moira”) when the aspect of the verb is imperfective (“was passing”) compared to when it is perfective (“passed”). When testing this in the L2, research has shown mixed results on whether this effect of verbal aspect appears. The studies presented explore what may be causing the disparity in results, and investigates the effect of verbal aspect in Spanish and a new task type, a maze task. The results showed that there are various individual and language related factors which affect whether L2 speakers can learn to use verbal aspect when comprehending and producing sentences, which gives evidence that L2 speakers do utilize prediction in pronoun processing. 
**Keywords**: Second Language Acquisition, Coreference, Pronouns, Verbal Aspect